README.md, before:

# Kickstarting with Excel

## Overview of Project
An up-and-coming play writer Louise launched a fundraising campaign to fund her play, Fever. The campaign lasted about a month and fell a little short of original goal amount. Now she would like to know how different campaigns compare in relation to their launch dates and funding goals.


The scope of the project is to analyze crowdfunding campaigns in the past years (2009-2017) and determine if there are any specific factors that make campaigns successful. Evaluation will be done in excel using pivot tables and charts to visual campaign outcomes vs launch dates and funding goals to uncover trends.


## Analysis and Challenges

The analysis for this report requires two types of charts:
	- Outcomes Based on Launch Date
	- Outcomes Based on Goals
	
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
For this part of the analysis, the chart was created based on a pivot table that provides a breakdown of outcomes by launch date months. Pivot table/chart was created as follows: 
- Launched date as rows, row labels were changed to display months.
- Outcomes were represented as columns, blank and 'live' values were ignored for the analysis.
- Two filters were provided, 1) Parent Categories and 2) YEAR to provide further drilldown capability.
	
![](/resources/Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch.png)


### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals

For the second part of the analysis, a table was created to show computed stats based on funding goal amount. This was accomplished using COUNTIF function to collect outcomes for "Play" Category based on funding goal amount range. For each goal range amount:
 
- Total successful, failed and cancelled outcomes were counted.
- Percentages of successful, failed and cancelled outcomes were generated using the numbers above.

A chart was then created using goal amount ranges and percentages for comparison.

![](/resources/Outcomes_vs_Goals.png)

### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered

- Pivot Table and Charts: While we learned how to create a pivot chart using two variables such as outcomes vs categories in the class, it took some practice to:
	-  Determine how to include a third attribute to the chart such as years. For example, if the intention is to view yearly outcomes vs categories, a stacked chart provides a good visualization.
	-  Evaluate how different charts visualize information and to find the right ones for different scenarios. 
- For "Outcomes by Goals" chart, the underlying table requires specific goal ranges. This resulted in hardcoding of upper and lower bounds in COUNTIF function for every row. The downside of this approach is that an update to the range would require updates to COUNTIF formula for all cells. I tried to define two columns to hold upper/lower bounds and use the cell references in the formula but due to lack of time, I could not fully implement it. The idea was to localize any potential change to goal amount range. It was later in module two that we learned VBA which seems to be a good solution to generate a table like this.

## Results

- **What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?**
	- May is the most successful month across all years for launching campaigns, with June as the second successful month.
	- December has the lowest success rate with only 50% campaigns hitting their goals, so not a good month to launch a fund-raising campaign.

- **What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?**
	- Campaigns with more than 70% success rate had a goal of $5000 or less, with the mean goal of successful campaigns at $5049. This implies that campaigns with a goal of $5000 or less have a greater chance of succeeding.

- **What are some limitations of this dataset?**
	- The dataset does not indicate the type of fund raising/marketing strategy employed to draw attention and raise funds. For example, donation-based or rewards-based etc. 
	- There aren't any details regarding initial capital used to setup the fundraiser.
	- There is no information on cities/regions where the fundraiser was hosted, so it is impossible to gauge if there is a correlation between geography and outcomes.
	- The spreadsheet does not include economic conditions during the years which could have been a contributing factor in making a campaign successful.
	- The dataset mostly contains information on US campaigns. So, it may not be beneficial for someone in Australia to use this data to plan a fundraiser.


- **What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?**
 
 	- Depending on what we are trying to evaluate, we can visual data in multiple ways such as stacked chart of outcomes by categories. This will help us visual how different categories performed. We can use year filter to further drill down and see stats for a year. (Please refer to Outcomes_vs_Categories chart below).
 	- We can create a similar chart as above with "Outcomes vs Countries" to see where most of the campaigns were held. (Please refer to Outcomes_vs_Countries chart below)	
	- Another possibility is to create a pie chart to show percentage of successful, failed etc. outcomes for given category or sub-category if we want to focus on a specific area.
	- The last chart (please refer to "Yearly Outcomes by Categories") shows how campaigns in different categories performed over the years. We can see that largest number of theater related campaigns were launched in years 2014, 2015 and 2016. WE can also change it to 100% stacked chart to see success and failure rates. 
	- We can create a table of stats with mean and median values of goal and pledged amounts. This will be another way to find a correlation between goal amounts and success rate (Please review the last image from excel). 

![](/resources/Outcomes_vs_Categories.png)  


![](/resources/Outcomes_vs_Countries.png)  


![](/resources/Yearly_Outcomes_by_Categories.png)  


![](/resources/Mean_Median_Stats.png)

Commit message:

formatting updates to README file

README.md, after:

# Kickstarting with Excel

## Overview of Project
An up-and-coming play writer Louise launched a fundraising campaign to fund her play, Fever. The campaign lasted about a month and fell a little short of original goal amount. Now she would like to know how different campaigns compare in relation to their launch dates and funding goals.


The scope of the project is to analyze crowdfunding campaigns in the past years (2009-2017) and determine if there are any specific factors that make campaigns successful. Evaluation will be done in excel using pivot tables and charts to visual campaign outcomes vs launch dates and funding goals to uncover trends.


## Analysis and Challenges

The analysis for this report requires two types of charts:
	- Outcomes Based on Launch Date
	- Outcomes Based on Goals
	
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
For this part of the analysis, the chart was created based on a pivot table that provides a breakdown of outcomes by launch date months. Pivot table/chart was created as follows: 
- Launched date as rows, row labels were changed to display months.
- Outcomes were represented as columns, blank and 'live' values were ignored for the analysis.
- Two filters were provided, 1) Parent Categories and 2) YEAR to provide further drilldown capability.
	
![](/resources/Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch.png)


### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals

For the second part of the analysis, a table was created to show computed stats based on funding goal amount. This was accomplished using COUNTIF function to collect outcomes for "Play" Category based on funding goal amount range. For each goal range amount:
 
- Total successful, failed and cancelled outcomes were counted.
- Percentages of successful, failed and cancelled outcomes were generated using the numbers above.

A chart was then created using goal amount ranges and percentages for comparison.

![](/resources/Outcomes_vs_Goals.png)

### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered

- Pivot Table and Charts: While we learned how to create a pivot chart using two variables such as outcomes vs categories in the class, it took some practice to:
	-  Determine how to include a third attribute to the chart such as years. For example, if the intention is to view yearly outcomes vs categories, a stacked chart provides a good visualization.
	-  Evaluate how different charts visualize information and to find the right ones for different scenarios. 
- "Outcomes by Goals" Chart: the underlying table requires specific goal ranges. This resulted in hardcoding of upper and lower bounds in COUNTIF function for every row. The downside of this approach is that an update to the range would require updates to COUNTIF formula for all cells. I tried to define two columns to hold upper/lower bounds and use the cell references in the formula but due to lack of time, I could not fully implement it. The idea was to localize any potential change to goal amount range. It was later in module two that we learned VBA which seems to be a good solution to generate a table like this.
- Markdown File Formatting Challenges: A lot of research and trial and error went into correctly formatting README.MD file. There is still a learning curve and its a work in progress.

## Results

- **What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?**
	- May is the most successful month across all years for launching campaigns, with June as the second successful month.
	- December has the lowest success rate with only 50% campaigns hitting their goals, so not a good month to launch a fund-raising campaign.

- **What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?**
	- Campaigns with more than 70% success rate had a goal of $5000 or less, with the mean goal of successful campaigns at $5049. This implies that campaigns with a goal of $5000 or less have a greater chance of succeeding.

- **What are some limitations of this dataset?**
	- The dataset does not indicate the type of fund raising/marketing strategy employed to draw attention and raise funds. For example, donation-based or rewards-based etc. 
	- There aren't any details regarding initial capital used to setup the fundraiser.
	- There is no information on cities/regions where the fundraiser was hosted, so it is impossible to gauge if there is a correlation between geography and outcomes.
	- The spreadsheet does not include economic conditions during the years which could have been a contributing factor in making a campaign successful.
	- The dataset mostly contains information on US campaigns. So, it may not be beneficial for someone in Australia to use this data to plan a fundraiser.


- **What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?**
 
 	- Depending on what we are trying to evaluate, we can visual data in multiple ways such as stacked chart of outcomes by categories. This will help us visual how different categories performed. We can use year filter to further drill down and see stats for a year. (Please refer to Outcomes_vs_Categories chart below).
 	- We can create a similar chart as above with "Outcomes vs Countries" to see where most of the campaigns were held. (Please refer to Outcomes_vs_Countries chart below)	
	- Another possibility is to create a pie chart to show percentage of successful, failed etc. outcomes for given category or sub-category if we want to focus on a specific area.
	- The last chart (please refer to "Yearly Outcomes by Categories") shows how campaigns in different categories performed over the years. We can see that largest number of theater related campaigns were launched in years 2014, 2015 and 2016. WE can also change it to 100% stacked chart to see success and failure rates. 
	- We can create a table of stats with mean and median values of goal and pledged amounts. This will be another way to find a correlation between goal amounts and success rate (Please review the last image from excel). 

![](/resources/Outcomes_vs_Categories.png)  


![](/resources/Outcomes_vs_Countries.png)  


![](/resources/Yearly_Outcomes_by_Categories.png)  


![](/resources/Mean_Median_Stats.png)
